---
layout: post
title: Lab 5
subtitle:  OWASP Top 10 and IEEE Top 10
categories: scanning
tags: [iot]
---

Software security is governed by two organizations: the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). While IEEE oversees all software security, OWASP focuses on web application security. The top 10 vulnerabilities that businesses should give priority while creating and testing software are listed by both groups.
```
The OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities for 2023 are:
Injection
Broken Authentication and Session Management
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
Broken Access Control
Security Misconfiguration
Insecure Cryptographic Storage
Insufficient Logging and Monitoring
Insecure Communications
Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
Web and Mobile Components with Known Vulnerabilities
```
```
The IEEE's Top 10 vulnerabilities for 2021, however, are:
Injection
XSS (cross-site scripting)
Information Leakage 
Insecure Communication
Safeguarding Data Storage
inadequate cryptography
Poor Authentication
Negative Input Processing
Unsuitable Authorization
security configuration error
```

Some vulnerabilities included on both the OWASP and IEEE lists are similar, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and Injection. The vulnerabilities covered in each list vary slightly from one another, though.
In contrast to the IEEE list, the OWASP list include items like Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) and Web and Mobile Components with Known Vulnerabilities. These flaws are more common in contemporary online applications, and the OWASP list reflects the growing significance of these problems. However, the OWASP list does not include the IEEE list's items, such as Information Leakage, Insecure Data Storage, Insufficient Cryptography, and Improper Authorization.
Some vulnerabilities included on both the OWASP and IEEE lists are similar, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and Injection. The vulnerabilities covered in each list vary slightly from one another, though.
In contrast to the IEEE list, the OWASP list includes items like Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) and Web and Mobile Components with Known Vulnerabilities. These flaws are more common in contemporary online applications, and the OWASP list reflects the growing significance of these problems. However, the OWASP list does not include the IEEE list's items, such as Information Leakage, Insecure Data Storage, Insufficient Cryptography, and Improper Authorization.

Referenzen:
[OWASP Top Ten Project](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)

