---
layout: post
title: Lab 6
subtitle: Solar Winds article
categories: scanning
tags: [scanning]
---


|Phase	|Description|	Solar Winds Exploit|Tools|
|:-----------|:-----------|:-----------|:-----------
|Reconnaissance|Gathering information about the target|No evidence of this phase being used|123324235345|
|Weaponization|Creating a weapon (malware) to deliver to the target|Solar Winds' Orion software was weaponized with a backdoor malware|
|Delivery|Delivering the weapon (malware) to the target|The malware was delivered through a software update to Solar Winds' Orion software|
|Exploitation|Executing the weapon (malware) to gain a foothold in the target system|The malware exploited a vulnerability in the Orion software and gained access to the system|
|Installation|Installing a persistent presence on the target system|The malware installed a backdoor that allowed for persistent access to the system|
|Command and Control|Establishing a channel for remote control of the target system|The malware communicated with a command and control server to receive instructions and exfiltrate data|
|Actions on Objectives|Achieving the attacker's objectives (data exfiltration, disruption, etc.)|The attacker was able to exfiltrate data from multiple targets|

We have identified every phase of the Cyber Kill Chain for the SolarWinds hack.
Potential Solutions:
Specify how much information you can find online.
keep an eye out on social media for information leaks
implement staff security awareness training
Put multi-factor authentication to use.
Identify and fix software and hardware flaws.
Utilize systems for intrusion detection and prevention.
Use email filters and firewalls.
Put application whitelisting into practice
Admin accounts should only have limited access.
Utilize intrusion detection and prevention systems based on hosts.
Observe the network traffic
Utilize endpoint detection and response tools.
Separate tainted systems
Reimage tainted systems

The Cyber Kill Chain has no stages that we cannot mitigate.
Tools:
Google Dorks and WHOIS Lookup for reconnaissance
Exploiting and weaponizing Metasploit and ExploitDB
Customers through email for delivery
installing PowerShell
Command and control with Wireshark and Snort
Sysinternals Suite for Objective-Based Actions
In conclusion, companies should deploy a mix of technical and non-technical measures to minimize the SolarWinds attack utilizing the Cyber Kill Chain. The Cyber Kill Chain offers a framework for comprehending the many stages of a cyberattack and ranking the essential mitigation tactics. Businesses may strengthen their security posture and lower the chance of successful cyberattacks by adopting the tools and mitigation methods listed in the table above.
