---
layout: post
title: Lab 4
subtitle: Digitalisation
categories: Cybersecurity
tags: [Cybersecurity]
---

## Digitalisation


A Digital Enterprise is an organization that has completed a digitization strategy (also known as digital transformation) that fully integrates digital technologies and tools into every facet of its operations, from ideation to execution to usage.
By utilizing globally dispersed technological and organizational resources, digitalization, in a broad sense, transforms an enterprise's original company structure and generates new business opportunities by combining intangible processes of product creation and manufacturing planning with actual manufacturing and operational support.
Digital enterprises, more specifically, focus on converting their information holdings into digital formats and automating business processes with scalable technologies that can utilize and contribute to those assets. These technologies include cyber-physical systems, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and various software solutions.

Cybersecurity challenges/concerns with a fully digital enterprise:
Here are some examples of security risks in digitalization:
Mobile security: Modern smartphones provide many features of conventional desktop computers, along with numerous connectivity options and various sensors. Due to their configurations, mobile devices present distinct risks compared to traditional computing environments. Understanding the safety dangers caused by digital transformation is crucial.
Cloud storage security: Businesses heavily rely on cloud computing for data storage, processing, and analysis due to its cost-effectiveness and ease of use. However, inadequate regulation of cloud computing can pose serious security risks. Issues include limited authority to control services provided by third parties and ensuring the confidentiality of customer data.
Security and Artificial Intelligence (AI): The intersection of AI and cybersecurity is gaining attention. AI has the potential to detect attacks before they cause harm by continuously gathering intelligence about new threats. However, AI could also be misused to acquire knowledge of defences and tools to evade security measures. Hackers can mimic software features to avoid detection by algorithms.

For SMEs:
SMEs commonly have less effective cybersecurity infrastructure and protocols in place, making them easier targets for attacks compared to larger organizations. Data shows that 43% of hacks target small businesses, costing an average of US$200,000 per incident. However, only 14% of small businesses have effective defences against cyberattacks.
Here are some examples of techniques hackers commonly use:
Ransomware Attacks: Hackers obtain information and encrypt it, demanding ransom payments from businesses to regain access to the data.
Phishing Attacks: Phishing exploits human psychology and error, making it a popular method for hackers to gain access to computer systems through deceptive emails or websites.
Malware Attacks: Hackers introduce harmful software into a computer or network, often through compromised machines or malicious links in spam emails or websites.

I agree with the views expressed by Wei et al. (2019) and Spremic and Simunic (2018) that security plays a central role in the digital economy. Particularly considering the global energy crisis in 2022, which has led to a rise in cyber attacks, it is more important than ever for companies to improve their security measures and protect their digital infrastructure.

### Reflection

The increasing reliance of the modern economy on digitization raises significant cybersecurity issues. Businesses struggle with securing data, preventing loss, securing infrastructure, and abiding by regulations. Businesses must keep up with technological advancements at a rapid pace in order to address new threats, but it can be overwhelming. Companies run the risk of suffering if these problems aren't fixed. It is essential to remain alert and active in adopting strong security measures to protect against new threats in this fast-paced era of digital transformation.


Reference:
Anh Nguyen Duc, Aparna Chirumamilla.17 Mar 2020.Identifying Security Risks of Digital Transformation -
An Engineering Perspective.https://inria.hal.science/hal-02510104/document.
Mathieu.June 10, 2021.Top 3 Cybersecurity Threats for SMEs.https://www.bocasay.com/cybersecurity-threats-smes/ .
Siemens.(not).Digital Enterprise.https://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/global/en/our-story/glossary/digital-enterprise/25213. 

